Caribbean tourism has officially bounced back from COVID-19, report says				




Tourism in the Caribbean is now alive and well, according to latest statistics, and is recovering from the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic.



The Caribbean Tourism Organization (CTO) revealed that the Caribbean accounted for 3.1 percent of all arrivals worldwide, with 28.3 million registered tourist visits in the Caribbean by the end of 2022—this is 52.4 percent more than the tourists in 2021.



While the 3.1 percent is down one percentage point from the historically high share of 4.1 percent recorded in 2021, the numbers still look promising, according to Neil Walters, acting secretary general for the CTO.



According to data from the World Tourism Organization (UNWTO), 2022 saw close to 917 million people travelling.



“It’s clearly apparent that even in the face of the devastating blows delivered by the pandemic, as a region we have responded with hope, strength, and determination to prevail,” shared CTO chair Kenneth Bryan during a press briefing on Tuesday.



CTO further revealed that in 2022, the Caribbean had improvements in the hotel industry. Hotel occupancy increased to 60.7 percent in 2022 from 44.4 percent in 2021.



Cruise visitors in the region, meanwhile, reached 19.2 million in 2022. This is five times higher than in 2021.



“The U.S. Virgin Islands, St. Maarten, Turks and Caicos, Puerto Rico, the Dominican Republic, and Curacao are the six countries that have surpassed their total pre-pandemic arrival numbers,” Travel Market Report wrote.







Festivities revived



In Dominica, for instance, three cruise ships have docked on the island as the nation restarts its series of festivals, treating tourists into a Caribbean revelry they will never forget.



And tourism in Dominica has become more conscious with the environment by keeping it eco-friendly and close to nature. Its has given its massive support on eco-tourism, developing eco-resorts with the funds generated through the Citizenship by Investment Programme (CBI). 



The same CBI program has also helped fulfill the government’s plans on providing more climate-resilient housing projects, educational institutions, and healthcare facilities, with private developing company MMC Development Ltd. overseeing these massive projects as mandated by the government.



Dominica’s airport, which is expected to be up and running by 2026, is also funded by the CBI programme.



Moving forward, the country hopes to usher in more tourists with the international airport.