Equipment for Dominica’s international airport arrives on the island				




Dominica’s northeast coast will see busy days ahead following the safe arrival of the heavy equipment for the construction of the island’s first international airport.



The vessel carrying the machinery reached Dominica’s shore Friday, and the offloading is expected to happen in the next few days.



In a report by WIC News, the vessel delivered several pieces of equipment for construction and 44 massive containers holding necessary building materials for the billion-dollar airport project, including two cement mixer trucks, one truck, 11 tons of steel bars, five motor graders, six bulldozers, two forklifts, 12 roller compactors, and 16 excavators.



In a tweet, Dominica’s Prime Minister Roosevelt Skerrit said that the arrival of the equipment is a “significant milestone in the development of International Airport” and it is an exciting feat “to be a step closer to delivering a world-class facility.”



The vessel containing airport equipment arrived on Friday. The offloading of heavy equipment will commence in the next few days. This is a significant milestone in the development of International Airport, we are excited to be a step closer to delivering a world-class facility. pic.twitter.com/rAV0LPJCLP
— Roosevelt Skerrit (@SkerritR) March 4, 2023




Officials involved in the development of the airport’s construction were also elated at the progress that would jumpstart the airport which has been put at a standstill for a very long time.



MMC Development Ltd Operations Director Cal Murad shared that they have been working on striving to produce the best engineering designs for the airport, making sure that the integrity of the structure is prioritized and maintained. 



Murad also said that the team has also been studying the kind of soil that is present at the airport site. Multiple onsite testing facilities were built to make sure that the quality of the ground will be suited for the airport construction.



Murad also reported that MMC Development Ltd. has started excavating in the area, and levelling the land, which will be used for “the mobilization of various logistics needed during the operation and the movement of heavy and gigantic machinery.”



MMC Development Ltd. is the leading developing company that has been working closely with the government of Dominica in building back better houses, healthcare facilities, and other essential infrastructure on the island.