Guyana and India strengthens business and bilateral relations				




Guyana Invest (National Promotion Agency of Republic of Guyana) and Invest India, (National Promotion Agency of India) have agreed to build cooperation by signing a memorandum of understanding (MoU).



The MoU was signed at The Oberoi Hotel in New Delhi, India, on January 12, 2023, in conjunction with the visit of a Guyana delegation led by H.E. President Dr. Mohamed Irfaan Ali, along with Dr. Rajkumar Ranjan Singh, Hon. Minister of State, Ministry of External Affairs, Government of India, and H.E. Dr. K. J Srinivas, High Commissioner of India to Guyana.



Dr. Peter Ramsaroop, Chief Investment Officer of Guyana and Agency Head of Guyana Invest, and Deepak Bagla, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of Invest India, inked this agreement. The memorandum of understanding is a type of mutual commitment to develop bilateral investment relations, facilitate foreign direct investment, and establish a framework to promote the exchange of important information and expertise.



“Guyana Invest is pleased to partner with Invest India, the leading investment agency in the world. Prior to this MoU we have been collaborating on areas of capacity building and technical assistance. With this agreement in place we look forward to strengthening our ties as we forge mutual Investment opportunities between our two nations”, Dr. Ramsaroop, stated.



Meanwhile, Mr. Deepak Bagla, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of Invest India, added, “Invest India looks forward to collaborating with Guyana Invest to enhance mutual investment and sourcing opportunities between the two nations. With the signing of this MOU, we expect to expand our bilateral commercial ties with Guyana.



The MOU will also focus on expanding business links between the two countries and enhancing bilateral collaboration



Guyana Invest is Guyana’s Investment Platform and is founded on democratic government, transparency, and accountability, as well as the belief in family, faith, and liberty. Public and private sector leaders collaborate on an expansive vision that ensures the achievement of measurable objectives.



Invest India is the Government of India’s official Investment Promotion and Facilitation Agency, charged with facilitating investments in the country. It is the initial stop for potential international investors in the nation. India is one of the world’s fastest-growing economies, which not only withstood the global recession of 2008-2009 but is also projected to grow at steadily greater rates over the next few decades.