Barbados and China to further strengthen ties				




Barbados and China are eager to strengthen their diplomatic ties in the fields of 5G technology, air transport, and the Global Development Initiative (GDI).



Ambassador of the People’s Republic of China to Barbados, Yan Xiusheng, recently made a courtesy call to Minister of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Trade, Kerrie Symmonds, in the Ministry’s Ante-Room, Culloden Road, St. Michael.



Ambassador Xiusheng expressed his appreciation for Barbados’ One China Policy, and Minister Symmonds assured him that Barbados will continue to adhere to this policy.



The Minister stated, “There have been 46 years of extremely tight relations between the two nations, and we have benefited greatly in terms of our development from our relationship with China. We have no plans to reverse this.”



Ambassador Xiusheng also discussed the blue economy and maritime cooperation between China and Barbados. The Minister said, “I initiated the Marine Spatial Planning Process in order to identify all of the uses for the marine space, which is approximately 425 to 430 times greater than our terrestrial space.



“We want to determine how best to monetize it, and we must investigate the mineral resources in particular, to ensure that there is fair and equal access across all of the marine space for our nationals and the various industries that may be involved, given that we have renewable energy; traditional energy; fishing; tourism; etc., so we must manage the process and conserve in order for viable benefits to result.”



In addition, the Ambassador described the Global Development Initiative (GDI), which builds on the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. Minister Symmonds pledged to take a personal interest and reassured the Ambassador that nearly all GDI objectives are compatible with the development objectives recognized by Prime Minister Mia Amor Mottley.



During the negotiations on 5G technology, Minister Symmonds stated, “There are a number of areas where a beneficial relationship would be advantageous, including the development of a national cloud, smart education, smart health, and ultimately a public Wi-Fi framework. Enhancing our island’s telecommunications capabilities is incredibly beneficial. To adopt 5G is to leapfrog the competition.”



Symmonds noted, in reference to air travel, that he looks forward to the day when Air China lands in Barbados. Ambassador Xiusheng indicated that a campaign to bring Chinese tourists to Barbados would be crucial in raising Chinese knowledge of the island’s attractiveness, and he concurred that a direct flight between China and Barbados would be advantageous.



The Minister asserted that Barbados would always welcome China and stated that China also enjoys a very cordial relationship with CARICOM.



On May 30, 1977, Barbados and China established diplomatic relations.