18 housing units handed over to families in Dominica				




The government of Dominica is keeping up with its promise of providing climate-resilient houses to its inhabitants, with 18 homes given to families in Bataca and Sineku last Wednesday.



Dominica’s prime minister, Roosevelt Skerrit, led the handover of the residential units that were constructed under the 11th EDF B-Envelope State and Resilience Contract for Rehabilitation, which was made following Hurricane Maria.



“The housing project… aims to reduce risk vulnerability and increase climate resilience in the Kalinago Territory. Fifty (50) homes will be constructed under the project,” the government’s official statement said.



Skerrit reiterated that the building better homes for citizens is “part of a deliberate Government policy to enhance quality of life and reduce the disruption to lives and property caused by severe weather.”



“Today you receive a home. A safe space. A place where your children can thrive; where you can build closer ties with your loved ones; and where you can find greater happiness, joy and contentment,” Skerrit said. “The keys that we hand over today represent comfort and belonging and hold the promise for a brighter future; a more hopeful future for each of you and your families.”



Additional houses are under construction in Concord, St Cyr, Mahaut River and Gaulette River as part of the EDF- funded project, the government added.



As the nation builds back better to become the world’s first climate-resilient country, the government of Dominica launched its “Housing Initiative” program, which aims to provide new homes to those affected by Tropical Erika and Hurricane Maria in 2015 and 2017, respectively. 



Apart from the EDF-funded housing projects, there are other housing projects that have been built across the island, including two thousand homes fully-funded by the island’s Citizenship by Investment (CBI). These houses were handed over to its beneficiaries, providing safe and sturdy shelter from strong storms and hurricanes.



Leading developing company in Dominica MMC Development Ltd. proposed a standard design where houses and apartments are a mixture of two- and three-bedroom types with a toilet and bath, a living room, a dining area, and a kitchen. 



Each house was built with reinforced concrete with storm-proof windowpanes and fortified with retaining walls, sewage and stormwater drainages.



A total of 13 housing projects were completed under the supervision of MMC Development Ltd. Aside from these, the company has also helped the government accomplish a number of healthcare facilities and educational institutions in the island.