Barbados Port Inc implements new cruise passenger service at Bridgetown Port				




A more effective operating strategy has been implemented by Barbados Port Inc. (BPI) to help cruise ship passengers disembark in Bridgetown Port



BPI Chief Executive Officer (CEO) David Jean-Marie announced the changes.



“BPI recognises that some guests who had taken the Rhapsody of Seas cruise were in recent times understandably unhappy with traffic movements within the Port of Bridgetown, which may have caused a disappointing end to their vacation. The main challenge related to the transit of disembarking guests and luggage between the homeport terminal (Shed 3) and the exit gate,” Mr Jean-Marie said.



According to Jean-Marie, BPI has worked with the Customs and Excise Department to make sure that travellers now have the following choices after their luggage has been finalized and cleared:



Board any of the free shuttle buses with luggage, transiting from Shed 3 to the Cruise Terminal Carpark, which has been designated for passenger Pickup/Drop off; Take one of the taxis available at Shed 3 for transport to the final destination; and walk, if preferred, with their luggage from Shed 3 to the designated passenger Pickup/Drop off area or exit gate.



To facilitate this process, BPI has committed to the following:




Provision of more suitable shuttle buses with a larger seating capacity and baggage compartment.



Provision of personnel to assist in loading and offloading baggage from the vehicles at Shed 3 and Cruise Terminal Carpark.



Continued rotation of authorised taxis at Shed 3 to move passengers and luggage to their final destination.



Continued facilitation of access to all persons doing passenger pickups with valid QR codes to the designated passenger Pickup/Drop off area.




In addition, BPI wants to remind everyone who wants to enter the port to pick up or drop off cruise passengers that applications for port entry must be completed and submitted online. This is required and consistent with the security and safety procedures that our border agency is required to follow.



Before arriving at the Port, applications for entrance must be granted. This will be verified by issuing a QR Code by reply email.



To enter, the visitor must scan the QR Code when they arrive and submit it to security. Security staff will then direct participants to the specified pickup and drop-off spot. Given the limited space in Port, no prolonged waiting or parking is permitted.



The on-site registered seaport taxis are urged to be used by passengers disembarking who need cab services.



All tourists are also cautioned that the Port is bustling on days when homeporting occurs, with hundreds of people coming and going in hours. The movements of passengers, crew members, port employees, local regulatory agencies, port tenants, and service providers may occasionally lengthen lines at the Gates.



BPI consequently urges the general public to adhere to the entry protocols, which are also meant to reduce traffic congestion at the Gates.