UK’s MP Rutley meets with Dominica’s Skerrit to discuss climate financing				




Pledges on climate financing continue to pour in the Caribbean.



On Tuesday, Dominica’s Office of the Prime Minister announced Roosevelt Skerrit’s meeting with UK’s David Rutley, MP for Macclesfield and Minister of Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office for Americas & Caribbean.



“They discussed matters, including innovative climate financing & bilateral partnership between the UK, Dominica,” PM Skerrit’s office said.







Prime Minister of Dominica Dr @SkerritR met MP for Macclesfield and the Minister of Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office for Americas & Caribbean @DavidRutley. They discussed matters, including innovative climate financing & bilateral partnership between the UK, Dominica. pic.twitter.com/hf14LzIja6
— Office of The Prime Minister of Dominica (@DominicaOPM) February 21, 2023








In a separate tweet, Rutley said that the meeting is meant to “bolster both Dominica’s and Small Island Developing States’ climate resilience.”



Just recently at the 44th regional summit of the Caribbean Community (CARICOM) Canada’s Prime Minister, Justine Trudeau, announced that his country is allotting $44.8 million in aid to the region, focusing on new initiatives such as “biodiversity, climate resilience, and disaster preparedness and recovery to support CARICOM in addressing the climate crisis.”



It has long been acknowledged how Small Island Developing States (SIDS) are going to be affected by climate change. The United Nations Development Program (UNDP) describes it best: “SIDS’ geographical conditions make them highly vulnerable to natural disasters, particularly those caused by climate change.”



Sixteen (16) countries out of the thirty-eight (38) SIDS are in the Caribbean, and this includes Dominica.



Dominica has long been working on how to become a climate-resilient nation, even aiming to become the world’s first in this endeavour, ever since Typhoon Erika hit the country in 2015 and Hurricane Maria in 2017.



These catastrophes brought islands like Dominica to their knees, but they are the same force that prompted them to build back better infrastructure on the island.



Dominica began the Housing Initiative, ensuring the integrity of the new houses that can withstand strong typhoons and even earthquakes. 



These are being developed by MMC Development Ltd., a leading developer in the Caribbean and a close partner of the government of Dominica that has proven its service to the nation for many years now.



More than 2,000 housing units have already been built under the supervision of MMC Development Ltd. and these houses have been turned over to beneficiaries—all of them are built according to what is the most sustainable method of construction.



There are healthcare facilities and educational institutions, too, being improved on the island. 



These projects under the developing company are funded by the Citizenship by Investment (CBI) Program of Dominica, one of the longest-running programs in the world.