King Charles’ coronation emblem unveiled				




Buckingham Palace unveiled the official emblem for King Charles III’s coronation featuring a circular floral design created by the acclaimed British designer behind Apple iPhone designs.



The emblem, designed by Sir Jony Ive, who was previously the Chief Design Officer at tech firm Apple and holds over 14,000 patents worldwide, is from his creative collective “LoveFrom” and represents the historic start of the new reign, dubbed the Carolean era in the United Kingdom.



It pays homage to the 74-year-old monarch’s love of nature by uniting the flora of the United Kingdom’s four nations – the rose of England, the thistle of Scotland, the daffodil of Wales, and the shamrock of Northern Ireland.



 The new Coronation emblem has been unveiled!
The emblem will feature throughout the historic events in May, including street parties, community gatherings and on official merchandise. pic.twitter.com/Yr3Gb1Lnd4
— The Royal Family (@RoyalFamily) February 10, 2023




Speaking about the design of the Coronation emblem, Sir Jony Ive said:



“It is such an honour to be able to contribute to this remarkable national occasion, and our team is so very proud of this work. The design was inspired by King Charles’ love of the planet, nature, and his deep concern for the natural world.



“The emblem speaks to the happy optimism of spring and celebrates the beginning of this new Carolean era for the United Kingdom. The gentle modesty of these natural forms combines to define an emblem that acknowledges both the joyful and profound importance of this occasion.”



The coronation emblem will be displayed throughout the bank holiday weekend, which begins on Saturday, May 6, when Charles is crowned at Westminster Abbey.



As the celebrations continue the following day, thousands of people who won tickets in a national ballot will watch a star-studded Windsor Castle concert.



It will also be seen at other national events, street parties, and community gatherings commemorating the event, as well as on all official coronation merchandise.