Dominicans keep jobs at Cabrits Resort & Spa amid hotel management changes				




Dominica’s first government-approved real estate project under its Citizenship by Investment Program (CBI), Cabrits Resort & Spa, is undergoing a massive change in its operations and management.



Rangel Developments, an investment and hospitality company based in the United Arab Emirates that operates across the Eastern Caribbean, has assured that the Dominicans currently working in at the 151-room Cabrits Resorts & Spa will remain and keep their jobs now that it will be managed and operated by InterContinental Hotels & Resorts (IHG), assuming the post from Kempinski Group following a periodic review.



“The changeover will take place at the end of March 2023 by agreement with both operators. No Dominican jobs at the resort will be affected by the switch, while all staff will be given training sessions by InterContinental to bring them up to speed with the company’s values and culture,” said Range Developments.



IHG is one of the world’s leading hotel companies with 208 InterContinental properties, and providing jobs for 325,000 people in 100 different countries.



“We are delighted to welcome InterContinental Hotels & Resorts to Dominica, which has established an unparalleled legacy in the luxury hospitality space,” said Mohammed Asaria, Range Developments managing director.



“InterContinental Dominica Cabrits Resort & Spa will offer experiences that suit play, adventure and relaxation, and we look forward to extending our relationship with IHG to bring this stunning property to life,” Asaria said. “We acknowledge and appreciate the dedicated hard work and professionalism of all the Kempinski team who have contributed to the success of Cabrits Resort & Spa since its opening four years ago.”



Range Developments, also operates a five-star luxury resort in St. Kitts-Nevis and another project slated in Grenada.



The prestigious CBI programme has provided citizenship to foreign investors in return for making a significant contribution to the socio-economic development of Dominica.



It has also helped Dominica fund its Housing Revolution agenda, building back better houses for the residents who were gravely affected by the typhoons and hurricanes that have ravaged the island in the last years.



The government of Dominica has been closely working with another UAE-based company, MMC Development Ltd., in rolling out massive infrastructure projects in the island that are funded by the CBI programme. MMC Development Ltd. has been overseeing the construction of thousands of housing units, as well as healthcare facilities, and the island’s first international airport.