The Bahamas launches Golden Yolk project				




Release – The Ministry of Agriculture, Marine Resources and Family Island Affairs (MOAMRFIA) and the Bahamas Agricultural and Industrial Corporation (BAIC) have collaborated to launch the Golden Yolk Project – a programme that will make The Bahamas self-sustainable in egg production.



A groundbreaking ceremony was held on February 27 at the Gladstone Road Agriculture Centre (GRAC).



The Government of The Bahamas has invested more than $15 million towards the project that will see the construction of a new state-of-the-art feed mill and seven and 38 new grow houses in New Providence and the Family Islands respectively.



Additionally, MOAMRFIA through BAIC, will construct a new poultry house at GRAC that will be climate resilient, semi-automated, energy efficient and easy to maintain.



The Golden Yolk project will be carried out on 12 Family Islands namely Grand Bahama, Abaco, Bimini, Berry Island, Andros, Eleuthera, Exuma, Cat Island, San Salvador, Long Island, Ragged Island and Inagua.



Made in The Bahamas by Bahamians, the project will also facilitate job creation through 90 new jobs – 51 of them being in the Family Islands.



Officials say The Golden Yolk project will see 13 million eggs annually come out of the Family Islands alone and will provide technical support and access to resources to contracted farmers.



The government also expects to put in place measures to ensure the profitability of the Golden Yolk by restricting imports of eggs to excess demand only, exempting import duties, particularly on feed, chicks and packaging supplies, and price control enforcement.



Prime Minister the Hon. Philip Davis said this project represents the pathway to a “more resilient, self-reliant Bahamas.”



“We are ushering in a new age of Agriculture. An age of promise and prosperity, an age where we make the most of what we have in the most sustainable way,” he said.



“This is especially important for low and middle-income families, who are disproportionately affected by ballooning inflation on imported foodstuff. The Golden Yolk project builds on this commitment to ramping up local food production. Indeed, it goes hand in hand with our pledge to ensure every Bahamian has sufficient access to affordable and nutritious food.”



Minister of MOAMRFIA Hon. Clay Sweeting, who has often touted egg production, said the project will transform agriculture in The Bahamas.



“We remain steadfast towards the goal of food security and reducing our $1 billion import bill, and we believe that this project will not only create jobs but will alleviate the difficulty of purchasing eggs for many Bahamian families,” he said.



“The pandemic and skyrocketing import prices have underscored the need to strengthen our domestic food supply and eggs, which is a staple in most Bahamians’ kitchen is a good way to start. We are committed to supporting local farmers and creating an egg industry that will benefit all Bahamians.”



Chairman of BAIC Leroy Major said the project is expected to boost the economy significantly.



“BAIC’s mandate has always been to empower Bahamians and through the Golden Yolk project, we will achieve this. We will work along with Bahamians farmers to ensure efficient, sustainable egg production. We will ensure that there are investment opportunities for Bahamian entrepreneurs that will create generational wealth for many years to come.”