Caribbean leaders meet to mobilize UN’s “Early Warnings for All” initiative				




Caribbean leaders recently gathered in Barbados in a bid to support the initiative to invest in an effective early warning system.



Known as the Early Warnings for All (EW4ALL), this initiative aims to call for “investment across disaster risk knowledge, observations and forecasting, preparedness and response, and communication of early warnings, with particular priority placed on vulnerable communities,” the UN News reported.



EW4ALL was initially introduced by UN Secretary-General António Guterres at the COP27 climate change conference in Egypt in November. 



Leaders from the region discussed on how they could include EW4ALL in their respective disaster risk management strategies.



“The Early Warnings for All initiative offers us an opportunity to strengthen cooperation around investment in multi-hazard early warning systems to ensure the safety of the people of the Caribbean,” Elizabeth Riley, Executive Director of the Caribbean Disaster Emergency Management Agency (CDEMA), was quoted as saying.



The CDEMA is comprised of 19 states and territories but only 30 per cent of them have “roadmaps for multi-hazard early warning systems.”



“Launching Early Warnings for All in the Caribbean is a critical first step toward coalescing the national, regional, and global cooperation needed to ensure everyone on Earth, especially the most vulnerable populations, are protected by multi-hazard early warning systems,” said Mami Mizutori, Special Representative for Disaster Risk Reduction and the Head of UNDRR.



The Barbados conference also highlighted some of the work that is already underway in some islands.



In climate resiliency, a number of islands have started focusing on stronger infrastructure that can withstand hurricanes and typhoons.



Dominica has, for example, been transforming its island as the world’s first climate-resilient nation with sustainable efforts on building climate-resilient homes.



More than 2,000 housing units from the Housing Revolution Programme have been turned over to Dominican families.



Behind the various housing projects of Dominica is MMC Development Ltd., the developing arm of UAE-based company Montreal Management Consultants.



“Despite the economic, political, and logistical challenges, MMC Development has delivered sustainable projects and we are always committed to complying with the government’s mandate to develop green structures,” MMC CEO and President Dr Anthony Haiden said in a previous interview.



The World Meteorological Organization (WMO) has stressed the importance of supporting the Caribbean in building climate and disaster resilience so that countries can take early action.