Turks and Caicos present at the New York Travel & Adventure Show				




The Turks and Caicos Islands recently took part in the successful New York Travel & Adventure Show, which took place from Saturday, January 28th to Sunday, January 29th at the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center in Manhattan, New York. Since 2019, the event has been New York’s largest travel gathering, providing the ideal platform to showcase the Turks and Caicos Islands and its distinct luxury offerings as a multi-island destination. This was part of the Turks and Caicos Islands Tourist Board’s larger effort to promote the destination at several major travel shows in the United States.



The Turks and Caicos Islands were proudly represented at the event by Mary Lightbourne, Acting Director of Tourism, and Gabriel Saunders, Senior Public Relations Officer, who emphasized the islands’ status as a premium travel destination. Throughout the event, they interacted with travel enthusiasts, media outlets, influencers, and others to raise awareness of the World’s Top Trending Travel Destination for Fall 2022. Visitors to the booth were given brochures about the destination as well as a tasting of Bambarra rum and Bambarra rum cakes. They were also given Beach Buddies keychains in the shapes of queen conch shells, spiny lobsters, Turks Head cacti, flamingos, and pelicans, which represent the Turks and Caicos Islands’ coat of arms.



“The New York Travel & Adventure Show was an ideal platform for us to bring the stunning beauty and diverse offerings of the Turks and Caicos Islands to a massive audience of travel enthusiasts,” Mary Lightbourne explained. “Through this opportunity, we were able to cultivate valuable connections with key industry leaders while also sharing our islands’ captivating allure with travel lovers in a significant source market,” Lightbourne added.



Attendees had the opportunity to interact with representatives from the Turks and Caicos Islands Tourist Board and learn about the destination’s diverse offerings, which included world-class beaches, turquoise waters, luxury resorts, and vibrant culture.



“We were honoured to showcase our destination’s distinct character and provide attendees with a taste of the local flavours and products that make our tourism product truly exceptional,” said Gabriel Saunders. “The Turks and Caicos Islands provide an unrivalled travel experience, and we were grateful for the opportunity to inspire more people to come to discover its beauty,” Saunders continued.



The New York Travel & Adventure Show was a two-day event that brought top travel experts, destinations, and cultural attractions from around the world together to provide travel enthusiasts with inspiration and information. The Turks and Caicos Islands Tourist Board also represented the destination at the recent Chicago Travel & Adventure Show and will be an exhibitor at the upcoming Atlanta and Dallas Travel & Adventure Shows.